---
mathjax: true
key: 2020-12-10-10-28-formulas-1500-1799
title: Formulas 数学公式 1500-1799
date: 2020-12-10 10:28 +0800
tags: Math 数学
---

## 1500

$$
\begin{aligned}
&x^{3}+m x=n\\
&\Rightarrow\\
&x=\sqrt[3]{\sqrt{\frac{n^{2}}{4}+\frac{m^{3}}{27}}+\frac{n}{2}}-\sqrt[3]{\sqrt{\frac{n^{2}}{4}+\frac{m^{3}}{27}}-\frac{n}{2}}
\end{aligned}
$$

At some point in the early 1500’s, an Italian mathematician named **Scipione del Ferro** determined a general solution for what is known as the depressed cubic equation.  This is cubic equation without any x2 terms.  The general form is : x3+px=q.  As it turns out, any cubic equation of the form x3+bx2+cx+d=0 can be written as a depressed cubic, but that came later.

At the time, mathematicians didn’t publish their results, but, instead, kept them secret so that they could win the problem contests that were common at the time in Italy.  As a result, del Ferro didn’t tell anyone about his discovery until shortly before his death in 1526.  He then revealed the secret to a student of his named Antonio Maria Fior.  In 1535, Fior used this knowledge to challenge a better mathematicain named Niccolo Fontana to a problem contest.

## 1636

$$
a^{p} \equiv a \quad \bmod p
$$

**Fermat's little theorem** states that if p is a prime number, then for any integer a, the number a − a is an integer multiple of p. In the notation of modular arithmetic, this is expressed as aᵖ≡a mod p. For example, if a = 2 and p = 7, then 2⁷ = 128, and 128 − 2 = 126 = 7 × 18 is an integer multiple of 7. If a is not divisible by p, Fermat's little theorem is equivalent to the statement that a − 1 is an integer multiple of p, or in symbols: aᵖ⁻¹≡1 mod p.

For example, if a = 2 and p = 7, then 26 = 64, and 64 − 1 = 63 = 7 × 9 is thus a multiple of 7.

[Fermat's little theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fermat's_little_theorem) is the basis for the [Fermat primality test](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fermat_primality_test) and is one of the fundamental results of [elementary number theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elementary_number_theory). The theorem is named after [Pierre de Fermat](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pierre_de_Fermat), who stated it in 1640. It is called the "little theorem" to distinguish it from [Fermat's last theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fermat%27s_last_theorem).

## 1637

$$\begin{array}{c}
x^{n}+y^{n}=2^{n} \quad n>2 \\
=> \\
x y z=0
\end{array}$$

In number theory, Fermat's Last Theorem (sometimes called Fermat's conjecture, especially in older texts) states that no three positive integers a, b, and c satisfy the equation an + bn = cn for any integer value of n greater than 2. The cases n = 1 and n = 2 have been known since antiquity to have infinitely many solutions.

## 1674

$$
\frac{\pi}{4}=1-\frac{1}{3}+\frac{1}{5}-\frac{1}{7}+\cdots
$$

In mathematics, the [Leibniz formula for ${\pi}$](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leibniz_formula_for_π), named after Gottfried Leibniz. It is also called the Madhava–Leibniz series as it is a special case of a more general series expansion for the inverse tangent function, first discovered by the Indian mathematician Madhava of Sangamagrama in the 14th century, the specific case first published by Leibniz around 1674. The series for the inverse tangent function, which is also known as Gregory's series, can be given by:

$$
\arctan x=x-\frac{x^{3}}{3}+\frac{x^{5}}{5}-\frac{x^{7}}{7}+\cdots
$$

The Leibniz formula for $\frac{\pi}{4}$ can be obtained by putting x = 1 into this series.

It also is the Dirichlet L-series of the non-principal [Dirichlet character](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dirichlet_character#Modulus_4) of modulus 4 evaluated at s = 1, and therefore the value β(1) of the [Dirichlet beta function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dirichlet_beta_function).

## 1735

$$
\frac{\pi^{2}}{6}=1+\frac{1}{4}+\frac{1}{9}+\frac{1}{16}+\cdots
$$

## 1737

$$
\sum_{p_{n}} \frac{1}{p_{n}}
$$

## 1746

$$
\frac{\partial^{2} y}{\partial t^{2}}=c^{2} \frac{\partial^{2} y}{\partial x^{2}}
$$

## 1750

$$
V-E+F=2
$$

## 1760

$$
\frac{d}{d t}\left(\frac{\partial L}{\partial \dot{q}_{i}}\right)-\frac{\partial L}{\partial q_{i}}=Q_{i}
$$

## 1799

$$
\begin{array}{c}
\forall p(x) \in \mathbb{C}[x] \\
\exists z \in \mathbb{C}: p(z)=0
\end{array}
$$

<!--more-->
